
# Architecture

## Introduction

- Host applications as containers 
- 2 planes -> Control plane and Data plane
- **Control plane** contains 
    - **The master node**, which manage, plans, schedules, monitor nodes
    - **ETCD cluster** , a key value distributed database to store metadata about the cluster
    - **kube-scheduler** , that scheules the application containers on the worker nodes based on the resource requirement, taints, etc., 
    - **Kube Controller Manager** ,
        a) Node Controller, handles onboarding new nodes, situation handling during nodes becomes unavilable or destroyed
        b) Replication Controller, makes sure desired number of replicas running
    - **API server**, responsible for orchestrating all the operations inside the cluster, by acting as a communication channel between master components, used by users    
      to perform management operations, monitor the state of the cluster by monitoring the states of the controllers and make the necessary changes.
- **Data plane** contains woker nodes running applications as container
    - **Container Runtime** In addition to Docker, other supported container runtime platforms are Rocket, ContainrD
    - **Kubelet** is the agent running on the worker nodes that listens to instructions coming from the API server to create/delete containers, etc., Kubelet receives periodic states of the nodes and the containers running on them. 
    - **Kube-Proxy** service enables communication between nodes and the containers running on different nodes. 
    
## ETCD
What is ETCD cluster?
  - Simple
  - Reliable
  - Distributed 
  - Key value pair store

How to install?
  - Download from etcd github (https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/)
  - Extract
  - execute ./etcd
  - listens on port 2379
  - Default CLI client ./etcdctl
    

### Setting up ETCD cluster:
Method 1: Setting up from scratch - Download and install on master node
Method 2: using kubeadm (runs as pod in the cluster)
configuration goes into etcd.service such as client-url, HA setup. 


## API Server
 - API server acts as the central communication layer between all the components running on master node and the worker nodes.
 - It authenticates, authorizes the request coming from the user (either through REST api or kubectl)
 - When the request comes from the user, it writes the data to the etcd (lets say creating a pod). Then, the scheduler gets notified of a new pod created with no nodes scheduled. The scheduler identifies the right node to schedule and conveys the message to api server. The api server then talks to the selected node kubelet to deploy the pod. Once pod created, kublet tells the api server and api server will write the data to the etcd.  

    



